--- 
layout: post
title: "I'm Baaa-aaack"
date: 2014-09-14
categories: posts site
---

As per per usual with this blog, real life and school got in the way of 
maintaining it, and once again it was down for an extended period of 
time. This time, due to moving to a new house, and not having room to properly 
set up my Raspberry Pi in an already overcrowded meadia center setup. So with 
that I've, somewhat sadly, decided to ditch the Raspberry Pi altogether, since 
it was starting to cause more annoyance than benefit.

Instead I've moved my entire website to GitHub's [Pages][pages] hosting. 
The obvious benefits of this are the consistent uptime along with Jekyll 
integration, allowing me to keep my blog exactly the way it was before. In fact 
nobody would even know that I had switched hosting if I hadn't said anything. 
The transition was more or less pretty smooth, barring a couple of DNS related 
configuration issues. Since all of my webiste files were already on GitHub, all 
I had to change it to a GitHub Pages website was to rename the repository to 
`misterpokeylope.github.io` and GitHub's servers did all of the magic. From 
there, replacing my old A records with a CNAME entry on FreeDNS was all I 
needed to do to get my domain name to point to the new host, and from there 
everything was golden...once I finally figured out how to properly get the 
redirect working.

Now that I have this website up and running for good, I'll probably write some
new posts, specifically about using Arch Linux on the Acer C720 Chromebook.

[pages]: https://pages.github.com/