--- 
layout: post
title: "Arch Linux on the Acer C720 Chromebook: Part 1"
date: 2014-08-14
categories: posts linux
---

Back in June, I wrote about my experiences with my then new Acer C720 Chromebook 
meant to replace my aging Asus eeePC. While Chrome OS turned out to be much more 
robust that initially expected thanks to the Crouton project, I still needed 
more functionality and control over my machine. Naturally, I wanted to use 
Arch Linux on it, as I had been doing on my other machines since I started using 
it a few years ago. Fortunately, due to the low cost nature of Chromebooks, 
most ship with fairly standard hardware on the inside, making them highly 
comaptible with most Linux distros. Arch Linux was no exception to this, but 
__unfortunately__, not everything works out of the box, and it requires 
patience and proactivity on the user's part.

### Installation
<br><br>

I've mentioned the unbelievably helpful [Arch Linux Wiki][wiki] in the past, and once 
again, it was a life saver in helping get my C720 up and running. Right off the 
bat one of the biggest differences from using a Chromebook is that they use 
[Coreboot][coreboot] instead of a traditional BIOS to boot the system. As far as 
I know, nobody as successfully reported getting a standard Linux disto to boot 
from a Chromebook's Coreboot, but fortunately Google was nice enough to include 
[SeaBIOS][seabios] to use, instead. To use it, one just needs to put the Chromebook 
into [Developer Mode][dev], and press `Ctrl + l` at the "Scary Warning Screen". 
This, needs to be done __every__ time one boots up the machine, unless the 
machine's [write-protect screw is removed and SeaBIOS is set as the default boot option][write]. 
This alone is the biggest reason I would not recommend that most people 
attempt to run Linux on this machine, unless they're willing to deal with this 
admittedly minor annoyance.

While the actual installation procedure for Arch Linux itself didn't require
any special modifications, other than needing to use Grub instead of syslinux[\[1\]][syslinux], 
getting the 64-bit version of the installed working required a bit more work than the 32-bit 
version. But hey, this is Arch Linux, and I ideally should never have to 
reinstall it again after this. Due to a [bug][bug] in the 64-bit Arch Linux 
installer the C720, and other Chromebooks, fail to boot when choosing 64-bit mode. 
Pending an actual fix there are two workarounds for this, only one of 
which existed when I did my install. I had to use an older version of the install 
medium that was confirmed to work with 64-bit mode, and just refresh the developer 
keys so that pacman would fetch everything properly. The other method is to 
create a custom install medium that uses [Grub instead of syslinux][grub]. I 
personally haven't tried this method, but others have reported it working, so 
until the installer is fixed, this is a much better method than using an 
outdated install medium.

### Post-Installation
<br><br>

Installing Arch Linux was a breeze since all of the hardware needed during the 
installation works out of the box. Unfortunately, this leads to two more parts 
of the machine that still don't work out of the box; the touchpad and suspending. 
For what it's worth, the C720 is not alone in the touchpad issue, since the 
recent Toshiba, HP, and Dell chromebooks also needed the same fix to get their 
touchpads working. The issue was that the Chromebook drivers in the Kernel needed 
to be modified to recognize these devices, and while it appeared to be a relatively
small change, the patch [only just landed in the Kernel][fix] and is on track to 
be in the 3.17 release. Until then, I have been using parched's 
[linux-mainline-chromebook][kernel] package in the AUR, which among other things, 
provides this touchpad patch.

The last true issue with the C720 was and still is getting suspend/resume to 
work properly. On the 3.15 kernel and below, this did not seem to work at all 
without a number of hacks, but in 3.16, all I needed to do was pass 
"tpm_tis.force=1" as a kernel parameter in Grub. However, thanks to 
[scot14's patch][patch] this is no longer needed, and this patch is now included 
in parched's linux-mainline-chromebook. 

Much thanks goes to parched and scot14 for their work in helping get these post 
installation issues worked out.

While these issues may sound like a deal breaker for this machine, I have 
otherwise found this to be a very pleasant machine to use, thanks to the efforts 
of other, much more competent, people doing the hard work to get Linux working 
properly. There are still a couple of other outstanding, and most likely 
not C720 exclusive, issues such as occasional GPU hangs that currently have no 
real fix yet, but at this point, most of these issues do not hinder me from 
using this machine as a daily driver. While I wouldn't recommend it, even to 
most other Arch Linux users, I would recommend it to anyone looking for an 
inexpensive and surprisingly powerful Linux netbook, as long as they don't 
mind getting their hands a bit dirty to get it up and running.

[bug]: https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/40637?project=6
[coreboot]: http://www.coreboot.org/Welcome_to_coreboot
[dev]: http://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/developer-information-for-chrome-os-devices/acer-c720-chromebook#TOC-Developer-Mode
[fix]: https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=58d08e3b2c2033354b91467da33deffa06360c28
[grub]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Acer_C720_Chromebook#Installing_Arch_Linux
[kernel]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/linux-mainline-chromebook
[patch]: https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1444442#p1444442
[seabios]: http://www.coreboot.org/SeaBIOS
[syslinux]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Acer_C720_Chromebook#Unresolved_issues
[wiki]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Acer_C720_Chromebook
[write]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Acer_C720_Chromebook#Enabling_the_pre-installed_version_of_SeaBIOS